Address TAG review feedback (#39)
WICG/badging: explainer.md

    - [Why can’t this be used in the background from the ServiceWorker? (see #28 and #5)](#Why-cant-this-be-used-in-the-background-from-the-ServiceWorker-see-28-and-5)
    - [Is this API useful for mobile OS’s?](#Is-this-API-useful-for-mobile-OSs)
    - [Why is this API attached to `window` instead of `navigator` or `notifications`?](#Why-is-this-API-attached-to-window-instead-of-navigator-or-notifications)
    - [Is there an upper limit on the size of the integer? And if so, what's the behavior if that limit is reached?](#Is-there-an-upper-limit-on-the-size-of-the-integer-And-if-so-whats-the-behavior-if-that-limit-is-reached)
    - [Are you concerned about apps perpetually showing a large unread count?](#Are-you-concerned-about-apps-perpetually-showing-a-large-unread-count)
    - [Internationalization](#Internationalization)
    - [Security and Privacy Considerations](#Security-and-Privacy-Considerations)
    - [Index of Considered Alternatives](#Index-of-Considered-Alternatives)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Overview

> The **Badging API** is a proposed Web Platform API allowing websites to apply badges to sets of pages on their origin. These badges are displayed in a location related to their documents such as the tab favicons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Badging API** is a proposed Web Platform API allowing websites to apply badges to sets of pages on their origin. These badges can be displayed in a location related to their documents, such as, for example, near the tab's favicons.
```

> If the set of pages being badged corresponds to an [Installed Web Application](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#installable-web-applications), the user agent may choose to display a badge in an [operating system specific place](#OS-Specific-Contexts) associated with the application (such as an icon on the shelf, home screen or dock).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the set of pages being badged corresponds to an [Installed Web Application](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#installable-web-applications), the user agent may choose to display a badge in an [operating system specific place](#OS-Specific-Contexts) associated with the application - such as an icon on the shelf, home screen, or dock.
```

# Badging API Explainer

Author: Matt Giuca <mgiuca@chromium.org><br>
Author: Jay Harris <harrisjay@chromium.org><br>

> Author: Marcos Cáceres <marcosc@mozilla.org>

Author: Is this your preferred email @marcoscaceres ? (assuming you want to be added :P)

> Author: Marcos Cáceres <marcosc@mozilla.org>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Author: Marcos Cáceres <mcaceres@mozilla.org>
```

> Note: This API can only be used from a foreground page. Use from a service worker is being considered for the future. [The FAQ](#Why-cant-this-be-used-in-the-background-from-the-ServiceWorker-see-28-and-5) has more details).

### Examples

#### Basic Examples
These examples provided limited context. They are intended to show how the API will look.

##### Setting an integer badge (as in an email app):
```js
Badge.set(getUnreadCount());
```

##### Setting and clearing a boolean flag (as in a game of chess):
```js
if (myTurn())
  Badge.set();
else
  Badge.clear();
```

#### Advanced Examples
These examples generally provide more context around what is going on, and may specify scopes. They are intended to show how real world applications may use the API.

##### Updating a Badge on a message from a WebSocket (as in a messaging app, receiving new messages):

```ts
interface ChatMessage {
  content: string;
  unread: boolean;
}

// A list of all messages received by the application.
const messages: ChatMessage[] = [];

// Sets the badge count to the number of unread messages.

> const updateBadgeCount = () => {

Author: I don't have strong feelings on this but in general I prefer arrow functions.

> const updateBadgeCount = () => {

Author: (converted)

> const updateBadgeCount = () => {

Author: What about 
```js
socket.onmessage = function(message) {
    // ...
}
```

?

> const updateBadgeCount = () => {

Reviewer 2: No, that's a lambda function so it should be in arrow notation.

// specific scope which encompasses their own scope.
Badge.set(7, { scope: `/baz` });
// Badge for Frobnicate is 'flag'.
// Badge for Bazify is '7'.
// Badge for /index.html is 'flag'.

// Pages inside an installed application do not effect
// the badge displayed in an OS specific context for
// that app.
Badge.set(55, { scope: `/frobnicate/page` });
// Badge for Frobnicate is 'flag'.
// Badge for Bazify is '7'.
// Badge for /index.html is 'flag'.
// Badge for /frobnicate/page is '55'.

// Setting the badge for '/' is equivalent to omitting
// the scope param.
Badge.set(88, { scope: `/` });
// Badge for Frobnicate is '88'.
// Badge for Bazify is '7'.
// Badge for /index.html is '88'.
// Badge for /frobnicate/page is '55'.

// Clearing the badge for a scope will cause the next
// most specific badge to be applied.
Badge.clear({ scope: '/baz' });
// Badge for Frobnicate is '88'.
// Badge for Bazify is '88'.
// Badge for /index.html is '88'.
// Badge for /frobnicate/page is '55'.

// Clears the badge for the origin.
Badge.clear();
// Badge for Frobnicate, Bazify, /index.html is nothing.
// Badge for /frobnicate/page is '55'.
```

## UX treatment

> Badges should appear as a user agent defined overlay on top of the app's icon, about a quarter of the size, and in one of the four corners. If the exact representation of a badge is not supported (e.g., a 2-digit number while only single characters are allowed, or a character where only numbers are allowed) the user agent should make a best effort attempt to map the unsupported data onto supported data. This may involve:

Reviewer 2: Reword this section so it's neutral as to whether we're doing app badging or tab badging. (Instead of "badges go over the app's icon, and may also go on the tab", say "badges can go in any place the user agent feels appropriate to indicate status, including the app icon or the page icon in a browser tab" (go into more detail than what I have here).

The purpose of this API is:

> * To give web sites a small but visible place to subtly notify the user that there is new activity that might require their attention without showing a full [notification](https://notifications.spec.whatwg.org/).

Reviewer: To  be less "visible" and more "accessible" :) 

```suggestion
* To subtly notify the user that there is new activity that might require their attention without requiring an OS-level [notification](https://notifications.spec.whatwg.org/).
```

* To indicate a small amount of additional information, such as an unread count.
* To allow certain user blessed pages (such as Bookmarks or [Installed Web Applications](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#installable-web-applications)) to convey this information, regardless of whether they are currently open.

Non-goals are:

> * To provide an arbitrary image badge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To provide an arbitrary image badge. The  web platform already provides this capability via favicons.
```

Possible areas for expansion:

* Support rendering a small status indicator (e.g., a music app shows ▶️ or ⏸️; a weather app shows ⛈️ or ⛅️).
* Support setting the badge from a service worker (e.g. an email app updating an unread count in the background).
* Support badges on bookmark icons (this is probably up to user agents to support, and may not need anything new API wise).

> * Support for non-inherited badges (see [Issue 42](https://github.com/WICG/badging/issues/42)).

Reviewer: Probably want to give a very short example here.

> * Support for unicode glyph badges.

Reviewer: Very short example here too.

Examples of sites that may use this API:

> * Chat, email and social apps; to signal that new messages have arrived.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Chat, email, and social apps could signal that new messages have arrived.
```

> * Productivity apps, to signal that a long-running background task (such as rendering an image or video) has completed.

Reviewer: This one doesn't fit, tbh... at least, with the current numbering scheme.

Author: I think @mgiuca meant that you could call `Badge.set()` when the task completes. It seems like a better fit for a notification though, TBH. Reckon I should remove it?

Reviewer: I guess... that's not traditionally how badges are used (as they generally imply a "call to action" by the user). That is, I've never seen a badge count down in the background. But I guess if they can count up (e.g., I get more emails), then can also count down to zero.

Reviewer 2: It wasn't meant to be a countdown showing on the badge. More of a little dot to indicate "your coffee is ready".

I agree a notification would be more appropriate for something like this, but maybe you want a low-priority notification rather than one that always pops up. You could think of it as a "call to action" because if you were waiting for a task to complete, you can't use the app, but now you can get back to work.

Reviewer: hmmm... maybe that's what `set(0)` could be instead of clear? Just a dot, no number.

Author: That's what `set()` is for :)

Reviewer 2: We were debating exactly how you would set a dot (maybe `set(true)` or even `setFlag()` was proposed by Domenic), but we want `set(0)` to be the same thing as clearing, so that you can call `set(unreadCount)` without having to write `if (unreadCount > 0) set(unreadCount); else clear();`.

(Assuming we don't actually want to allow "0" to be displayed.) I wouldn't want `set(0)` to do something undesirable in the case where you had no unread messages.

Reviewer: I'm still a bit confused why we need `.clear()` if `.set(0)` does the same thing? With respect to `setFlag()`, it seems to go counter having functions that do entirely different things.    

About: 

```JS
if (unreadCount > 0) set(unreadCount); else clear();
```

It seems quite application specific. What about what @fallaciousreasoning suggested?:

```JS
Badge.set(); // show indicator, no number.
Badge.set(0); // clear.
Badge.set(123); // show number
```

Author: ^ Note, this isn't my suggestion, this is the current API proposal (as @mgiuca originally wrote it), though there is also an explicit `Badge.clear()` which feels fairly natural.

Author: I think `Badge.clear()` feels like a fairly natural counterpart to `Badge.set()`, though I'm not opposed to
```js
Badge.set(true) // Sets a flag.
Badge.set(false) // Clears flag
```

as `false` is to the `boolean` space as `0` is to the `integer` space.

Interestingly, I suspect `Badge.set(false)` will already clear the badge (because it will be cast to the number 0). However `Badge.set(true)` will set the badge to `1`, not flag.

Perhaps we could completely avoid the whole flag/integer debate if we only supported numerical badges (the value `1` could just be displayed as a flag, if the user-agent so chose). This way `true`/`false` would Just Work™ and we would display integers for n > 1.

Reviewer 2: > It seems quite application specific.

@marcoscaceres The intended usage is in the current explainer under "API Proposal".

The idea was that there would be two primary usage "modes" for this API: integer "mode" and Boolean "mode" (plus other symbols but let's ignore that for the time being). In Integer "mode" you always pass an int, which reflects an unread count or similar:

```js
Badge.set(getUnreadCount());
```

In this mode of operation, the badge is implicitly cleared if the unread count is 0. I think that's pretty reasonable behaviour. I could be convinced that we should just explicitly show "0" if you pass `0`, but I think that would be more surprising than desirable.

In Boolean "mode" you always either call `set()` with no parameters, or `clear()`:

```js
if (myTurn())
  Badge.set();
else
  Badge.clear();
```

The reason we have a `clear()` is because, even though it does the same thing as `set(0)`, it looks super weird to write "`if (condition) Badge.set(); else Badge.set(0)`".

We could also remove `clear` and just have `set(true)` to set the flag and `set(false)` to clear it, but I don't like the idea that `set(true)` and `set(1)` give different behaviour. That's why we didn't originally specify the Boolean mode as being literally passing a Boolean.

> Interestingly, I suspect `Badge.set(false)` will already clear the badge (because it will be cast to the number 0). However `Badge.set(true)` will set the badge to 1, not flag.

Yep, that's what will happen, but only because we defined the API as taking a `long`. We _could_ theoretically make it "`long or boolean`" and then `true` and `1` would be treated as independent values. But as I said above, I think that's confusing.

> Perhaps we could completely avoid the whole flag/integer debate if we only supported numerical badges (the value `1` could just be displayed as a flag, if the user-agent so chose). This way `true`/`false` would Just Work™ and we would display integers for n > 1.

Hmm, interesting proposal, but I think if the app wants to display a number, we should allow it to display "1" when there's one unread mail. And if an app wants to display a Boolean, we shouldn't allow the UA to show "1" or empty. I think we want explicit separate integer and Boolean badge types.

Author: > Hmm, interesting proposal, but I think if the app wants to display a number, we should allow it to display "1" when there's one unread mail. And if an app wants to display a Boolean, we shouldn't allow the UA to show "1" or empty. I think we want explicit separate integer and Boolean badge types.

Suits me :)

Reviewer: > I think Badge.clear() feels like a natural counterpart to Badge.set(), 

I do like .clear() as it's obvious what it does.  

> We could also remove clear and just have set(true) to set the flag and set(false) to clear it, but I don't like the idea that set(true) and set(1) give different behaviour. ...  But as I said above, I think that's confusing.

Agree, would be confusing and would violate a JS invariant: true/false always coerce to 1/0.

> we should allow it to display "1" when there's one unread mail

Agree. Definitely want to keep the ability to display "1". 

I'm liking the modes thing... so, I think I'm sold on what we currently have 👍

Author: Awesome, I'm resolving this :)

> * Games, to signal that player action is required (e.g., in Chess, when it is the player's turn).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Any application that needs to signal that user action is required (e.g., in a turn-based game, when it is the player's turn).
```

Advantages of using the badging API over notifications:

* Can be used for much higher frequency events than notifications, because each new event does not disrupt the user.

> * There is no need to request permission to use the badging API, since it is much less invasive than a notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* There may be no need to request permission to use the badging API, since it is much less invasive than a notification.
```

Author: If we are considering a permission, maybe we should have this work via promises after all? @mgiuca 

However, I feel like badging probably doesn't need a permission (sites can already change their favicons without one) and this feels like a pretty minor extension from that point of view.

Reviewer: Not right now... just don't want to give the impression that this is all set in stone.

Author: All right, I'll the suggestion :)

(Typically, sites will want to use both APIs together: notifications for high-importance events such as new direct messages or incoming calls, and badges for all new messages including group chats not directly addressed to the user.)

## API proposal

### The model

> 1. A Badge is associated with a [scope](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#navigation-scope).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the web app is installed, a Badge is associated with a [scope](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#navigation-scope).
```

Author: I think this change is incorrect? All Badges are tied to a scope, web applications don't really come into it. I could link to service worker [registration scope](https://w3c.github.io/ServiceWorker/#service-worker-registration-scope) here, instead of the appmanifest scope if it makes things more clear?

We might want to move `scope` into its own spec, and reference it from ServiceWorker, AppManifest and Badging, seeing as we seem to be reusing it a bit.

Reviewer: Yeah, just didn't want it to read like "this is tied to web manifest". Step one makes it seem like it's really tied to it.

Author: Cool, I've done that, and I've added a note that we may want to extract it into its own spec.

2. Documents are badged with the most specific badge for their url (i.e. prefer a badge for `/page/1` to a badge for `/page/` when on the url `/page/1?foo=7`).
3. If no scope is specified the scope is the current origin (equivalent to setting the scope to `/`).
4. For [installed applications](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#installable-web-applications), a user agent **MAY** display the badge with the most specific scope still encompassing the [navigation scope](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#navigation-scope) of the application in an [OS specific context](#OS-Specific-Contexts).

At any time, the badge for a specific scope may be:

* Nothing. Apply the badge for a less specific scope, or, if there is no matching badge, display nothing.
* A "flag" indicating the presence of a badge with no contents, or
* A positive integer.

The model does not allow a badge to be a negative integer, or the integer value 0 (setting the badge to 0 is equivalent to clearing the badge).

### The API

The `Badge` interface is a member object on

> [`Window`](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-window-object). It contains three methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`Window`](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-window-object). It contains the following methods:
```

```webidl
dictionary BadgeOptions {
  // The scope the badge applies to.
  // If unspecified this is the origin of the current page.

>   USVString scope;

Reviewer: Still worried about managing this in the browser, specially across multiple tabs :( I wonder if we should make this simple in that, if the page navigates, the badge needs to be set again. Need to think about this more.

Author: I think we should say that the user agent **MAY** clear the badge on navigation but I don't think we should require it.

Sites should always update their badges when they're loaded but after they have been closed it might be useful to keep showing a badge count somewhere (e.g. in the dock or in a bookmark).

I agree that managing this looks pretty daunting though :/

Reviewer: We might need to do some prototypes... just to see how sane it is. I know a lot of people at Mozilla don't like SW scopes also (for same reasons around complexity) - so need to have a coherent story/model to show how this will work.

Author: Yeah, it's definitely a worry. I wonder if we can avoid going down this rabbit hole?

Do you want to create a new issue for it and see what some people more knowledgeable than me here (almost anyone :P ) think?

Reviewer: Yes, that's a good idea... when you file the bug, just describe the problem and say that the problem "feels somewhat similar to a service worker scope, but we completely open to alternatives".

Reviewer: Ok... thinking more about this... maybe we don't need scope, and service worker might be the answer here (because it already has scope): What if the management of the badge with written in JS and managed by the service worker? It could then use `BroadcastChannel` to notify other tabs if they need to update the badge?

Reviewer: And navigating would clear badge... but could be set again `onload` or whatever.

Author: Created #43, shall we move discussion there?

const socket = new WebSocket('ws://example.com/messages');
socket.onmessage = (event) => {
  // Parse the message and add it to our list.
  const chatMessage = JSON.parse(event.data);
  addMessage(chatMessage);
};
```

##### Setting a separate badge for the app and a specific page (as in the case of github notifications an PR statuses).
On all pages of this site, we wish to display the notification count, except for `/do-have-https`, where we should instead display `flag` if the page was not served over `https` or nothing, if it was.

The main page of our site https://example.com/
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Main Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script>
      // There are ten unread notifications.
      // This was injected by the server.
      Badge.set(10);
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

On https://example.com/do-i-have-https
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Main Page</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script>
      const badgeOptions = {
        scope: `/do-i-have-https`
      };

      const hasHttps = window
        .location
        .href
        .startsWith('https');

      // Note: This is not supported.

>       Badge.set(hasHttps ? '✓' : '☠', badgeOptions);

Reviewer: This doesn't conform with the IDL yet... which only allows `unsigned long long`.

Author: See the `Note:` in the comment. Do you think I should completely remove it?

Reviewer: Lol, sorry... totally missed the comment! :P yeah, I think we should remove it for now.

Author: Cool, done :)

3. If no scope is specified for a badge then its scope will default to the current origin.
4. For [installed applications](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#installable-web-applications), a user agent **MAY** display the badge with the most specific scope still encompassing the [navigation scope](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#navigation-scope) of the web application in an OS specific context, such as the launcher, homescreen, dock or taskbar.

At any time, the badge for a specific scope may be:

* Nothing. Apply the badge for a less specific scope, or, if there is no matching badge, display nothing.
* A "flag" indicating the presence of a badge with no contents, or
* A positive integer.

The model does not allow a badge to be a negative integer, or the integer value 0 (setting the badge to 0 is equivalent to clearing the badge).

### The API

The `Badge` interface is a member object on
[`Window`](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-window-object). It contains two methods:

* `void set(optional unsigned long long, optional BadgeOptions)` 
    
    Sets the badge for the specified scope to be the given data, or just "flag" if the argument is not given.

> > Note: Should we have a separate overload for boolean flags now, as discussed in [Issue 19](https://github.com/WICG/badging/issues/19)?

Author: @mgiuca Do you think we should split these? Otherwise we're going to have an API something like this:

```webidl
interface Badge {
    // Set number
    void set(unsigned long long contents, optional BadgeOptions options);

    // Set flag
    void set(optional BadgeOptions options);

    // Clear
    void clear(optional BadgeOptions options);
}
```

  <body>
    <script>
      const badgeOptions = {

>         scope: '/status/1'

Author: Updated. I did this originally because I thought parsing logic kind of distracted from the example.

### What about an overload of the `Badge.set(6, { badgeTabsToo: true })` for badging all favicons? Then sites could opt in to Badging their favicons!
(this could even be extended with a regex for matching the path of tabs to change the badge on)

It was considered but the overload has a few problems:
- It’s unclear what the scope of tabs to badge here is (the origin? Pages with the same url? The manifest scope? What if the manifest isn’t linked from this page?).
- What can be Badged in the OS is [highly constrained by the OS](#specific-operating-system-treatment) (most only support numeric badges, and some don’t even support those) while the badge displayed with favicon hacks can be any image (browser dependent). It would be a shame if the new API was less useful than what developers already have.

If this approach were to be taken, a better solution might be multiple methods inside the Badge namespace:

```js
Badge.setApp(/* <number> */); // Will be displayed in an OS specific context.

> Badge.setFavIcon(/* <number> | <string> | <image> */); // Can be anything the browser can fit on the favicon.

Reviewer: As far a "image" goes, the platform already provides a  way of setting the favicon image (and change it dynamically) - so we  probably wouldn't want that at all.

```

A [declarative approach](#Couldnt-this-be-a-declarative-API-so-it-would-work-without-JavaScript) this be a declarative API, so it would work without JavaScript?) was also considered.

### Won’t this API (as is) only work in [installed apps](https://w3c.github.io/manifest/#installable-web-applications)? (see #1)
Yes. This API, as it currently stands, allows a web application to show a Badge in an OS specific context. As all considered OS’s only allow installed applications to show a Badge in these contexts, the API only applies to installed applications.

Non-installed apps are free to set the badge, it will just not have any effect. 

### Couldn’t this be a declarative API, so it would work without JavaScript?
As there is only one OS specific place to show a badge for an installed PWA, but potentially many open `documents` only one document would correctly reflect the current badge value. This would likely be confusing.

We’re considering a separate declarative API for setting a badge on the favicon of the current document, which might look something like this:

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

```

## UX treatment
Badges may appear in any place that the user agent deems appropriate. In general, these places should be obviously related to the pages being badged, so users understand what the status is for. Appropriate places could include:
- Tab favicons.
- Bookmark icons.

> - [OS Specific Contexts](#OS-Specific-Contexts) for [Installed Web Applications](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/#installable-web-applications).

Reviewer 2: I think this should be more concrete (about showing it over the app icon), like the previous text.

The difference between an explainer and a spec is that the spec has to play this weird game of pretending that it doesn't know anything about the real world and talks about everything in vague totally general terms. In the explainer, that is the place to be very concrete about how you actually intend this to be used.

  
> Note: When showing an badge in an [OS Specific Context](#OS-Specific-Contexts) user agents should attempt reuse existing [operating system APIs and conventions](#Specific-operating-system-treatment-for-installed-web-applications), to achieve a native look-and-feel.

If the exact representation of a badge is not supported (e.g., a 2-digit number while only single characters are allowed, or a character where only numbers are allowed) the user agent should make a best effort attempt to map the unsupported data onto supported data. This may involve:
- Saturating a number: 351 -> '99+'
- Degrading the data: 7 -> 'flag' when only flag badges are supported.

> 

Reviewer 2: Did this section get moved anywhere? It seems important.

Author: First bullet is covered by [OS Specific Contexts](https://github.com/WICG/badging/blob/794c8b9331c1e12fe26036c1025860e609af3e94/explainer.md).

Second bullet is covered by the new note (see line 306 above).

Degrading the data is already covered above (and again, implicitly by saying to follow OS conventions, and listing the Android conventions are flag only).

Limiting support to integers makes behavior more predictable, though we are considering
whether it might be worth adding support for other characters or symbols in future.

### Couldn’t this be a declarative API, so it would work without JavaScript?
It could be, yes. However, as badges may be shared across multiple documents, this could be kind of confusing (e.g. there is a <link rel="shortcut icon badge" href="/favicon.ico" badge="99"> in the head of a document, but it is being badged with 7 because another page was loaded afterwards). There is some discussion of this [here](https://github.com/WICG/badging/issues/1#issuecomment-485635068).

### Why can’t this be used in the background from the ServiceWorker? (see #28 and #5)

Realistically, using the badge from the background is the most important use case, so ideally, badges could be updated in the background via the service worker.

However there is a non-trivial problem: We need a way to inform the user that the app is running.

> With push notifications, browsers enforce that a notification be shown, or the browser will stop the app from processing additional notifications. Things are not as simple with badging, as a site could always set its badge to the same value, which would give the user would no cue that a site is running (or has run) in the background (and could mine all the cryptocurrencies!).

Reviewer 2: Perhaps link to https://github.com/w3c/push-api/issues/313 since there's no spec text requiring this, that is the bug to add said text.

To solve this, we are considering a separate notification channel especially for badges. The browser would know how to turn the notification into a badge without running any JavaScript.

> > Note: I might be pretty far off the mark here, I’m not that familiar in things service worker, background, or notifications.

Reviewer 2: Just drop this. We'll get this vaguely right before submitting this PR.

Author: Cool, was mostly to make sure I had feedback before letting this through.

### Is this API useful for mobile OS’s?

> iOS has support for badging APIs (see [iOS](#ios). However, PWAs on iOS will not be able to use the badging API until Safari (the only browser engine allowed on iOS) adds support for it.

Reviewer 2: Missing a close paren.

Drop the second sentence; that may not strictly be true (we could do tab badging without Safari implementing, and the only blocker to app badging is being able to create PWAs in the first place). Essentially badging is just as implementable on iOS as any other API relating to PWAs.

On Android, badging is blocked at an OS level, as there is [no API for setting a badge without also displaying a notification](#android). However, a badge will already be displayed if a PWA has pending notifications (it just doesn’t allow the fine grained control proposed by this API).

To summarize: This API cannot be used in PWAs on either mobile operating system. Support on iOS is blocked until Safari implements the API and Android does not have an API for controlling badges. Should either situation change, the badging API will become trivially available.

### Why is this API attached to `window` instead of `navigator` or `notifications`?

There was a [poll](https://github.com/WICG/badging/issues/14#issuecomment-445548190), and the current style seemed most popular. There is more detail and discussion in [Issue 14](https://github.com/WICG/badging/issues/14).

### Is there an upper limit on the size of the integer? And if so, what's the behavior if that limit is reached?

> There is no upper limit (besides 2<sup>64</sup>). However, each user agent is

Reviewer 2: Why 2^64? I believe 2^32 is the largest value that can be stored in a WebIDL long which is the type we're using here (any value larger will saturate or something).

Since JS numbers are stored in a double, the limit wouldn't be 2^64, it would be 2^53 (precisely) or 2^2047 (imprecisely), but that's irrelevant since it gets truncated to a long.

Author: I think the [WebIDL](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/modules/badging/experimental_badge.idl?type=cs&q=f:experimental_badge.idl&sq=package:chromium&g=0&l=15) at the moment is taking an `unsigned long long`, which is a `uint64_t` in C++. Not sure about how the translation works?

Reviewer 2: Oh, now I remember. This was requested on #21 (which I didn't really want to do, but apparently it's convention).

[Per WebIDL](https://heycam.github.io/webidl/#abstract-opdef-converttoint), a JS conversion to long long with `[EnforceRange]` is clamped at 2^53, so we don't end up rounding integers.

So change this to 2^53.

(Aside, I'm curious why it's 2^53 - 1 and not just 2^53. 2^53 is the largest integer that can be represented in a double along with all smaller integers, so it seems like just a mistake to not allow it.)

Author: I've updated this to be `Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`.

Reviewer 2: Oh, nice find. I didn't know about that.
